---
title: Countering Commodification
---

# Countering Commodification

Commodification, the alteration of any resources, products, ideas, et cetera so
as to be sold in a market, is fundamentally anchored to the idea of attribution
of value. In modern society, we have come to view mathematics as the basis for
our understanding of the world. This is true in not only physics, but economics
and even sociology as a whole. If we were to simply trade one item for another,
it is arguable that the two parties doing said trading are agreeing on some
value for each item in the trade. The value doesn't have to necessarily be given
a number, just Person A views Item 1 to have the same value as Person B views
Item 2 to have<sup>[1](#1)</sup>.

...

In a system wherein a capitalist class, the "bourgeoisie" as they are often
called, exists, this class may choose whether or not to themselves be
commodified, while those of any other class that does not bear any control over
the economy are simply commodified by default. One particularly stark
manifestation of this idea can be found in a slave trade: those in the slave
class are a literal commodity, they are bought and they are sold; however, the
slave traders, the class controlling the trade, is not subject to the same
treatment. More simply put, the rich may say themselves while everyone else is
forced to do so. Certainly, most reading this have never been sold in a slave
trade and so the previous example may be a bit out of their scope, but
nonetheless the idea remains true in the day to day life of the average person
today. 

---

<sup><a name="1">1</a></sup> Theoretically, if trades were made in such a system
between three parties (Persons A, B, and C), where Person A trades Item 1 for
Person B's Item 2, Person B trades Person A's original Item 1 for Person C's
Item 3, and finally Person A requests a trade to take back their Item 1 from
Person C, Person C could deny said trade on account of them valuing Item 1
higher than Item 2 (which Person A now has). That is to say that the transitive
property does not necessarily apply in this system, as each trade is itself a
new context in which each item is valued by the parties that hold and request
them. The change in value can be attributed to change in circumstance, Person C
may inherently value anything that they received from Person B as a higher value
than anything they received from Person A by default. It could also be that over
the time between trades Person C found Item 1 very useful and therefore now
attributes higher value to it. If the circumstances are changed slightly such
that it is Person C who is attempting to trade Item 1 back to Person A for Item
2, in such a case the argument could be made that Person A, having been willing
to trade away Item 1 to begin with, has no interest in once again having Item 1.
